So now in the last lecture we had a look at the pros and cons for the full stack approach where we add
the framework to the individual pages and create tiny apps for these pages.
Now what about the single page approach which pros and cons do we have there.
Let's start with the pros again.
It kind of hasty in the words of the cons of the approach.
It has a very fast reaction time obviously since we only use javascript and Javascript runs in the browser.
Once we click somewhere and we change something it happens almost instantly.
And that offers a great user experience because things will update if you need to load some data.
Show us Spener but it will feel much more reactive and interactive to the user.
And dad really makes up a lot and that really is important.
Over advantages.
We have a better separation of the business and presentation logic since our critical business logic
has to run on the server.
Javascript is always open to everyone.
We have to differentiate.
We will have to focus on the things which are important to the user experience in our front end code
and will have to focus on the critical business logic items on the server and mixing it is harder.
And thats a good thing.
Additionally we can provide a great user experience because everything is reactive because everything
happens very very fast.
And because if we create a single page application we still have change in you or else.
So it feels like a traditional web page to the user.
But again things happen faster and we can react better to what the user is doing on our page.
We can track the user better and provide a good user experience and we might also offer off line support
again since we are using javascript and that runs in the client.
Theoretically we don't need the internet connection all the time.
So if we provide to write code we could ensure that our app still works.
Once the user is off line or if he temporarily uses the internet connection again adding to this great
user experience we do have disadvantages though.
The biggest disadvantage is that search engine optimization is hard if you want your pages to get indexed
by Google using a single page application is difficult.
Now there are tools and ways emerging which make this easier which work with free rendering parts of
your app on the servers so that Google sees what the user sees.
But this is still emerging and doable but harder than in the average approach.
So if se o is very critical to your page you might ever dig into these emerging ways or stick to the
multi-page application where again you can still use the frameworks just not for a single page app.
Additionally security needs more for it and with that I meant not that it's insecure.
But since this way of creating apps is relatively new.
A lot of the typical security issues are partly solved but you will have to dig into more tutorials
more blog posts to read about best practices to learn how to solve specific security issues.
So it's all doable but a bit harder than in the Old World.
In the multi-page applications where many frameworks have that deeply baked into them.
And another point it won't work without a script.
If the user turned off Javascript your app won't work.
Keep in mind however that only around 2 percent of all Internet users have that turned off.
So that might not matter for you but if it doesn't matter a single page application is no option for
you.
So there were the advantages and disadvantages of creating a single page application.
With that you hopefully get a good overview over the two approaches when you might use which in this
course will dive into deep frameworks in a way which will allow you to create or to use them in ever
way.
But of course as always you will have to take some courses dedicated to these frameworks to learn more
about them thereafter.
But before getting to this point let's continue first.